surprise you hit right at full speed hey
it's me Destin welcome back to smarter
every day this is Mark Rover mark is
using me it's true or false
mark is using me to access you
subscribers not really happy about this
part out of all state that's exactly
what's happening all right so in the
field of engineering people always
celebrate these awesome great
achievements but they never really think
about all the failures that it took to
get to that point well this video is
different in this video I'm going to
show you the failures that we
experienced we were trying to make a
bullet time rig using a phantom
high-speed camera okay so I brought a
high-speed camera out here mark did this
GoPro rig with an armature and you know
he can see around things it's kind of
like simulated bullet time only with
movement so we're going to try the same
thing with high speed with this rig that
they built and have you ever had it up
to full speed no it's too dangerous
this is dumb we're in the middle of the
desert running high speed in the dark
whose idea was this so we got a mirror
apparatus that's right so basically the
way it works is this whole thing is
fixed yeah what we did is basically
attach it to DC motor watch the camera
lens got it and then you have a plank
the camera down here so it's stationary
yep and then the light goes from here
out to here and then it bounces up here
so up here you'll have like a watermelon
gotcha
and explode it and because this is
spinning around so fast yeah effectively
like the cameras out yourself but this
is just a more safe way to do it so
80/20 is a type of extruded aluminum
that engineers geeked out with a lot and
so basically you get this cross-section
and then you can use bolts and stuff
like that ken would you like to talk
about your creation if it's out of
balance in any way shape or form if the
center of gravity doesn't line right on
this axis of the motor of the spin
vibration whole thing is going to wobble
and orbit and essentially we could
generate enough forces that the whole
thing would either catastrophic we fall
apart or we could have parts fling off
at us and could be quite dangerous so
that's why you get it strapped off here
right thanks Ken running out of light
let's do it
you have a tripod head so this is the
camera tripod mount this is Cannes but
we have to put it down below the mirror
here our distance right so that we don't
have mechanical interference
you've got a propane balloon okay and
how are you gonna light it so we have a
neon transformer here and when we set it
off we're going to see a spark jump
across this gap and I placed a match
head in between that so that the propane
itself will ignite aren't you clever
oh this is a cool shot putting the
background there is NASA's Jet
Propulsion Laboratory not as cool is
what we're doing in this sketchy little
riverbed and three two one fire oh my
thought is when it's going boom all that
propane is pushing down and there's no
oxygen mixing with it and it's blown
away I believe that what are your
glasses up
okay now we're going to do what all
right now we're gonna speed test the
system speeding up okay pull it out it's
bubbling oh come on man look at that
mark fine
we're on run you see that mode it's that
plate that bends all right all right
sometimes it's a song I think rude
Collin I don't know if I was oh look a
camera look Cameron wants to cry what
are you thinking right now mark that's
recoverable Oh heartless you learned
from your ears I want to kill you
so basically the center of mass on this
mirror isn't lined up with the axis of
where we have the bolts right so it's
sort of a weak so essentially it's just
a friction friction joint here so
there's an offset sort of a moment that
was causing this to come out so
basically the center of mass of this
mirror is a few inches below the hinge
point the hinge point right and so that
that creates a moment about that
friction joint and then once you get to
a certain rotational velocity then just
too much it overcame that friction and
then we contacted right here all right
let's run through our failures number
one it was too dark because my plane
came in late
number two the balloon couldn't pop the
way we wanted it to so we had to use a
torch number three we didn't line the
camera up right with the armature number
four if you use a mirror you'll lose
about 30% of the light by the time it
reflects off the surface the solution
for this is to use what's called a front
surface mirror which basically has the
reflective surface on the outside that
way the light doesn't have to go through
the glass to get to the reflective
surface number five of course is the
mirror slipped and banged against the
armature the fix for this was to put a
mechanical hard stop in position and
finally fire is really not that
interesting in this setup if you think
about it you've got this big flame
that's kind of nebulous and there's no
real point you can focus on even though
we had all these failures this is part
of the design process once we work
through all these failures we were able
to come up with this
you
if you want to see more of this matrix
footage because it's amazing to go check
out mark rover's channel I subscribe to
him a long time ago he earned my
subscription with the Mars rover video
and also is roadkill video and if you
give him a shot a bet he'll earn yours
too anyway I'll leave a link over here
inside gonna check him out give Michonne
okay this video was all about failure
which is why for today's sponsorship on
smarter every day I'm going to recommend
the book failure is not an option by
Gene Kranz hidan who this guy is he's
pretty awesome he was a Mission Control
from the Apollo program even before that
Gemini even he was there for Apollo 13
anyway human lives are on the line they
stare failure in the face and they beat
it it's pretty awesome so you can listen
to this you go to audible.com slash
smarter download this book it's pretty
awesome I'll leave a link in the people
download the book now I'll leave a link
in the video description you can click
it wrong way turn right don't fail value
you should miss our turn
beggars not an option audible.com slash
smarter download the book support and
website now support or sponsors thank
you very much I'm Destin you're getting
smarter every day have a good one